Docs: Update early access feature management (#6423)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/feature-flags/early-access-feature-management.mdx

---
title: Early access feature management
---

Early access feature management enables your users to opt in (and out) of betas and other in-progress features. 

This is useful if you want to:
- Run a beta program without building a custom solution
- Provide access to features that are not yet ready for general release
- Allow users to control their own product experience

## How it works

> Early access features can be created and edited from the "[Early Access Management](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features)" tab in PostHog.

Reviewer: Nit: dont need quotes since the text is already highlighted
```suggestion
Early access features can be created and edited from the [Early Access Management](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) tab in PostHog.
```

Features are powered by feature flags. Flags are automatically created when a feature is created (based on the name of the feature), or you can link an existing feature flag to a feature. Each feature can also contain a description and documentation link to help users understand what the feature is for.

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/create-feature-release.png)

Once created, you can opt users in or out manually on the feature detail screen by searching for them in PostHog. You can also implement a public opt-in flow which we detail below.

> **Important:** Early access feature opt-in is an *overriding condition*. This means that a user opt-in or opt-out overrides any existing release condition on the feature flag. Only when a user has not explicitly selected to opt in or out will the release conditions on the feature flag be used to determine feature flag availability.

## Creating a public opt-in

> > You can find a full walkthrough of building an app with early access feature management in our "[How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program)" tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can find a full walkthrough of building an app with early access feature management in our [How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program) tutorial.
```

### Option 1: Site app

We've prebuilt a site app that adds a user early access feature modal to your site. 

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/early-access-feature-demo.png)

To use it:

> 1. Ensure you set `opt_in_site_apps: true` in your PostHog initialization configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you set `opt_in_site_apps: true` in your PostHog [initialization configuration](/docs/libraries/js#config).
```

> 2. Search for "[Early Access Features App](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Early%20Access)" in the "Browse Apps" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Search for [Early Access Features App](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps?name=Early%20Access) in the [Browse Apps](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps) tab.
```

> 3. Enable it by clicking the blue gear, setting a `data-attr` selector (or enabling "Show features button on the page"), enabling the toggle and pressing save.

Author: Clarified and added a screenshot

4. If you did set a `data-attr` selector, add a component with that selector into your app. For example, if you set your selector to `#beta-button`, you need to add an element like `<button id="beta-button">Public Betas</button>`.

Once set up, early access features appear on this panel for users to opt in or out of.

### Option 2: Custom implementation

You can fully customize your early access management experience using `getEarlyAccessFeatures` and `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` from PostHog's [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js#early-access-feature-management).

- `getEarlyAccessFeatures` is called with a callback function that receives a list of early access features with their flag key, name, description, and documentation link. You can use this to build a UI for users to opt in or out of features.

> ```js-web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```react
```

const posthog = usePostHog()
const activeFlags = useActiveFeatureFlags()

const [activeBetas, setActiveBetas] = useState([])
const [inactiveBetas, setInactiveBetas] = useState([])

useEffect(() => {
  posthog.getEarlyAccessFeatures((features) => {

    if (!activeFlags || activeFlags.length === 0) {
      setInactiveBetas(features)
      return
    }

    const activeBetas = features.filter(
			beta => activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    const inactiveBetas = features.filter(
			beta => !activeFlags.includes(beta.flagKey)
		);
    setActiveBetas(activeBetas)
    setInactiveBetas(inactiveBetas)
  }, true)
}, [activeFlags])
```

- `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` is called with a feature flag key and a boolean value to opt in or out of the feature. This updates the user's opt-in status for the feature.

> ```js-web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```react
```

const toggleBeta = (betaKey) => {
  if (activeBetas.some(
    beta => beta.flagKey === betaKey
  )) {
    posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
      betaKey, 
      false
    )
    setActiveBetas(
      prevActiveBetas => prevActiveBetas.filter(
        item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
      )
    );
    return
  }

  posthog.updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment(
    betaKey,
    true
  )
  setInactiveBetas(
    prevInactiveBetas => prevInactiveBetas.filter(
      item => item.flagKey !== betaKey
    )
  );
}
```

> Other useful functions for custom implementations are `isFeatureEnabled()` and `useActiveFeatureFlags()` (React only). These help you separate early access features users have opted into from those they have not.

Reviewer: Example?

```suggestion
Other useful functions for custom implementations are `isFeatureEnabled()` and `useActiveFeatureFlags()` (React only). These help you differentiate users who have opted into early access features from those who have not.
```

Features are powered by feature flags. Flags are automatically created when a feature is created (based on the name of the feature), or you can link an existing feature flag to a feature. Each feature can also contain a description and documentation link to help users understand what the feature is for.

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/create-feature-release.png)

Once created, you can opt users in or out manually on the feature detail screen by searching for them in PostHog. You can also implement a public opt-in flow which we detail below.

> **Important:** Early access feature opt-in is an *overriding condition*. This means that a user opt-in or opt-out overrides any existing release condition on the feature flag. Only when a user has not explicitly selected to opt in or out will the release conditions on the feature flag be used to determine feature flag availability.

## Creating a public opt-in

> You can find a full walkthrough of building an app with early access feature management in our "[How to set up a public beta program using early access management](/tutorials/public-beta-program)" tutorial.

### Option 1: Site app

> We've prebuilt a site app that adds a user early access feature modal to your site. To use it:

Reviewer: We should add a screenshot of what this looks like, so people can decide whether they'd like to use it or not

Author: Moved up the screenshot from further down

Once set up, early access features appear on this panel for users to opt in or out of.

![Create feature flags](../../images/features/feature-flags/early-access-feature-demo.png)

### Option 2: Custom implementation

You can fully customize your early access management experience using `getEarlyAccessFeatures` and `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` from PostHog's [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js#early-access-feature-management).

- `getEarlyAccessFeatures` is called with a callback function that receives a list of early access features with their flag key, name, description, and documentation link. You can use this to build a UI for users to opt in or out of features.

- `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment` is called with a feature flag key and a boolean value to opt in or out of the feature. This updates the user's opt-in status for the feature.

Other useful functions for custom implementations are `isFeatureEnabled()` and `useActiveFeatureFlags()` (React only). These help you separate early access features users have opted into from those they have not.

> For a sample implementation, see the [public beta tutorial here](/tutorials/public-beta-program#creating-a-beta-opt-in-page) or [the site app code here](https://github.com/PostHog/early-access-features-app/blob/main/site.ts).

Reviewer: Let's include code examples of `getEarlyAccessFeatures`, `updateEarlyAccessFeatureEnrollment`, etc. and how to use them in this doc, instead of linking to the github or tutorial. It's easier to follow this way, and theres less jumping around

Author: Added
